Why have I never noticed
this before?
Is he not the very spit and
image of Uncle Ross?
My child is due in December. I'd
prefer it to be born in November.
I shall make up a medicine
to produce a living
child in the manner you desire.
I will have you expelled
from parliament!
Will you, George?
And how will you manage that?
Promise me you won't
go after George.
I couldn't bear to have the feud
stoked up again.
Both of us have been afflicted
by the loss of our daughter.
Our abiding love for each other
will mend what has been broken.
You have a daughter.
Do you not think there be more to
life than carnal love?
Be my wife in name only,
I'll never ask you for more.
Why is it so dark, George?
I'm afraid of the dark.
Do not be afraid, my love.
Elizabeth is dead.
Go! See what we have brought her to!
Why would I want any of this
if she is not here to share
it with me?
Elizabeth was your first love.
But not my last.
I made that choice long ago.
And I.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
They had no chance.
By the time we arrived,
it was all over.
Any other survivors?
None.
And if you lose this one,
you'll have me to answer to.
I'll do my best, colonel.
Stay with us, friend.
You're a mad fool, but we
need mad fools here!
Colonel Despard...
Ensign Poldark.
I think you'll find you're
Captain Poldark now.
Stitch him up, Enys.
His war's not over yet.
You've got an hour.
Thank you.
Those who would help cannot.
Those who could help will not.
Perhaps this one will.
Will he remember?
He'll remember.
Subtitles by explosiveskull
www.OpenSubtitles.org
Valentine?
Bessie, go and fetch the boy.
I won't go.
I won't, I won't.
I don't want to go to Truro.
That's enough.
Drive on!
There's someone waiting for you.
Geoffrey Charles.
Geoffrey Charles, where
have you been?
We've missed you.
Aunt Demelza!
So dull, being an orphan.
No home, no funds, no estate.
No Mama to complain to.
You have us.
Don't think I'm not grateful.
But now, having only myself
to please...
..I think I shan't return to Harrow
nor go on to Oxford.
I shall look to make my own
way in the world.
And go where?
The new Military Academy
at Great Marlow.
I thought to enrol as a cadet.
Which will require
considerable funds.
No!
I swear, I'll starve before I take
a penny from that man.
We'll see.
Wheal Plenty.
Yes?
Nicknamed Wheal Scarcity since
you savaged wages.
Was that wise?
Why should we pay more for labour
when we can get it for less?
When was the last time you
entertained?
I've no taste for company.
Captain Ross Poldark and Mr
Geoffrey Charles Poldark.
How are you, George?
Positively joyous.
As befits a man shortly to be
ennobled by the king.
So it is true, you quit Trenwith?
Mm. Without a backward glance.
For all I care, it can rot
where it stands.
Well, in that case...
It can tolerate some neglect till
Geoffrey Charles comes of age.
Speaking of which - your stepson has
decided to leave Harrow
and train for the military.
Well, I wish him a speedy bullet!
And I wish you a...
As you know, his father left
him without capital.
There was, I believe, an undertaking
from you to provide for him
until he came of age.
A spoiled brat who makes no effort
to disguise his loathing?
Why would I lay out a penny for
him?
Because you loved his mother.
Get out.
George, I sympathise more
than you know.
If you dislike the military,
I have another suggestion -
Wheal Leisure.
Wheal Leisure?
The boy once demonstrated
an interest in mining.
Perhaps he could revive
her fortunes?
We both know she was
never worked out.
Take this as my final word.
Wheal Leisure...
..will never again be
a Poldark mine.
Remove these persons from my house.
A toast...
..to this house.
And to my mother...
..Elizabeth.
To Elizabeth.
To Elizabeth!
Elizabeth.
And to my father - and Aunt Agatha -
and all who bear the Poldark
name - past and present.
To Poldarks, past and present.
And to the king!
Soon to be honoured by meeting
Sir George.
What's the king done to deserve it?
Here's to the new century.
What do it hold for us?
The Royal College of Surgeons has
invited me to join their ranks.
And their inaugural
dinner in London.
Which Caroline has declined.
Horace prefers summer in Cornwall.
Well, I shall join you.
I have friends in London.
And I must try to persuade the
Academy to hold my place
until I can beg, steal or
borrow funds.
Speaking of begging -
may I ask a favour?
Will you look in here
from time to time?
Light a fire?
Put winter primroses in the window?
If you wish it so.
I wish it.
This is a Poldark house.
Keep it safe for us, please.
So strong and full of life.
Elizabeth.
So cruel to have her snatched away.
Childbirth can be hazardous.
So can motherhood.
One thing I guarantee...
..you will not share her fate.
I pity Geoffrey Charles.
The loss of his mother...
He'll recover.
Now he's found a way forward.
Or at least, a distraction.
Life must go forward.
Nothing is constant.
Except me.
Except you.
And sometimes, perhaps, I take
that for granted.
I think perhaps you do.
Sometimes you give me grief.
Sometimes you give the like to me!
But...
..for better or for worse...
..in contentment or...
..or in strife...
..nothing in my life has meaning
without you.
Nor mine without you.
And no matter what the
future brings...
..and what may come between us...
..that you can rely on.
Forgive me - the London coach
was early.
I came here directly.
My husband bid me bring this letter.
He said I should warn you -
if you take on his case, it may be
the rashest thing you ever do.
My name is Catherine Despard.
Ned's wife?
He said you'd remember.
Show me the letter.
"Dear friend, I hesitate to
appeal to you,
"the task being perilous and
uncertain.
"But I am desperate and you
are my last hope."
So, erm...
..your husband, he know'd mine...
In America.
When yours came home, mine went on
to fight on the Spanish Main.
Was much decorated, then
made governor.
-How... How did you come to...?
-Be his wife?
I was his kitchen maid.
No, no...
No, I, too! To Captain Poldark.
How long do we stay
here in Cornwall?
Until my business here is concluded.
Why am I needed, Papa?
I've got nothing to do with
that business.
We have been strangers for much
of your life, my dear.
I'm simply making up for lost time.
Besides, I do have calls
to make today,
of which I won't require
your presence.
Shall we?
Why did he wait so long?
At first, we thought it
was a mistake.
To be falsely accused, imprisoned
without trial?
How could this be?
Lately, it seems as if there
are dark forces at work.
But Ned, he dislikes to ask
for aid or favour.
I recall!
So, if I'm not mistook, he asks me
to take on the government,
the Crown, the Empire,
the slave trade.
Did I omit anything?
What is your view?
That your mind is already made up.
But you agree?
Dear Lord, Ross.
Why didn't I marry an ordinary man?
When do we leave?
May I present, Mr Ralph Hanson Of
the Mosquito Shore Mahogany Company?
Mosquito Shore...?
Bay of Honduras, sir.
In the West Indies.
Ah, of course.
My daughter, Cecily.
Charmed.
How may I assist you, sir?
So, will you resign your seat?
I'm still in two minds.
And meanwhile...
..will you and the children join me?
If I promise not to fight
anyone this time?
And what would such a
promise be worth?
Since you must always be battlin'
for some cause or other?
-This latest...
-Is for a friend.
Which makes it more or less
likely you'll fight?
Morning!
We need to eat...
Get us some money.
Plaguey Warleggans!
Halved wages at Wheal Plenty.
Six made complaint.
Every one dismissed.
And now, they come to us for work.
I tell them there's none,
they won't believe me.
These folk will be persistent
when I'm gone.
They need to know who
is in charge.
As much as we wish to help,
we're a small concern.
And can scarce find pitches for
those already employed.
That don't mean we don't greatly
sympathise...
That'll put bread in our mouths.
But I will make enquiries
hereabouts,
see what can be done for you.
You have my word.
Begging your pardon, mistress.
It's a mistake to make promise.
If anyone will hold you to it,
Tess Tregidden will.
Well, I intend to honour my promise.
In full.
I understand you're to be
knighted next month.
Must be gratifying to see
your efforts in parliament rewarded.
Well, naturally, one does not
seek such honours.
I myself am but a humble
man of business.
Aye, but what a business!
Mahogany!
Worth its weight in gold, they say.
Yes, and the beauty of it is, that
unlike gold, one can grow it -
at very little cost to oneself.
Though, at great cost to those
who labour for it.
My daughter has a somewhat naive
grasp of business matters.
When do you return to Westminster?
I'm told your sway in the House
is considerable.
Oh, I believe I have some
influence, yes.
On the Irish Question,
where do you stand?
On governance from Westminster, with
the firmest possible hand.
Ah, now there, we agree.
Heaven save me from upstart
Irishmen.
In Honduras, I was plagued by a most
vexatious specimen.
If the mahogany business interests
you, we should talk further.
Perhaps you'd care to dine with us?
Miss Cecily, too?
Miss Cecily's returning to London.
Really?
For the season, Papa.
I must have new gowns.
Ah, well, in that case...
A pity.
Isn't it?
The advantage must be obvious.
A man in your position should
not remain single.
May I introduce my battlefield
saviour -
and your husband's most
esteemed surgeon -
Dr Dwight Enys.
Mrs Catherine Despard.
I'm honoured to meet you, sir.
The honour's entirely mine, ma'am.
Knowing your husband, you're already
assured of my admiration.
And you're certain it's wise to get
embroiled with Ned again?
When was it ever wise to get
embroiled with Ned?
Goodbye, my dear.
Can't thank you enough for
lending me your husband.
When you know my husband better,
you'll discover he never does
what he don't want to!
Nor mine! Vexing, is it not?
-Take care of Mama for me.
-I will, Papa!
Come see me soon.
I promise I'll not stay a moment
longer than I need to.
Come on.
And He will come again, He will come
again in all his glory to judge
both the living and the dead, and
His kingdom, it will have no end!
No end!
The Lord says that this is
the condemnation...
His assaults upon our freedoms -
laws to stamp out free speech!
On your feet, renegade.
At ease, Ensign.
And salute when you see a superior.
When I see one, I will.
That troublesome Irishman
I mentioned...
Nailed the Spanish at Black River.
Fought countless skirmishes all
the way to Honduras.
Made governor of the new colony
at Mosquito Shore.
As punishment or reward?
Then tasked with allocating land
to the new colonists -
convicts, pirates, deserters...
..freed slaves.
As much right as any to a
second chance.
My colleagues - the old
colonists - occupied the land,
and cut its timber, for generations.
And although it wasn't
strictly theirs,
-they felt they'd earned the right to call it so.
-Quite right.
So, when that upstart began to hand
it out to every rag,
tag and bobtail - well, he put our
entire business in jeopardy.
Now, the Crown, takes a share
of the profits.
So anything which threatens
the profits, is,
ipso facto, an enemy of the Crown.
Or so I argued, when I
denounced the man!
So I'm recalled to London,
accused of acting against the
interests of the Crown.
By interfering with its profits.
-You're a traitor.
-Guilty as charged.
And have since lain, without trial,
in this delightful residence.
Where he may contemplate
his mistakes...
..at leisure.
And you may continue to grow gold.
My darling Kitty - she's without
means, without friends.
Take her under your wing.
She's a remarkable woman.
I can see that, Ned.
So, needless to say,
you have a plan?
New laws to stamp out free speech
and forbid political meetings?
And if the law forbids we now to
make complaint,
can any be surprised, rather than
quelling the fire,
it only adds fuel to it?
Then, do we damn the law or take
it into our own hands?
What have you in mind?
Like they done in France.
By teaching the "haves" what
it is to "have not"!
By razing their fancy houses
to the ground!
And how will that serve?
It'll serve to make them afraid!
Do we know of a better way to make
them sit up and take note?
Steer well away from that one.
But if the Lord commands
to save her...
What, then?
The greater the sinner,
the sweeter the victory.
Papa, look what I found.
Take it away.
-But Papa...
-Take it away!
Out alone, missis?
Should you not be safe at home,
sippin' tea?
I find I have little time
for such diversions.
I have my work cut out with a farm,
a mine, a family.
I know who you be.
Scullery maid from Luggan
who wed her master.
Got grand and forgot what it's
like to sicken and starve.
No, I recollect well what it
means to go hungry.
And I'd not wish it on anyone.
Which is why it is my aim to find
honest work for you all.
Bless thee, Lady Bountiful.
Alms for the poor, to salve
thy conscience.
What if we don't want charity?
What do you want, then?
Sister?
What did they want?
Er...
They were just saying how
grateful they was
that we're looking to find
work for them.
Indeed, Captain, I was the
presiding magistrate
when Despard was detained on
charges of sedition.
Is he a friend of yours?
We fought together in America.
Knowing him as I do,
I feel there's been a miscarriage
of justice.
Unwitting, no doubt.
Such things do happen.
And I remember at the time speaking
in his favour.
But the other magistrates
over-ruled me.
What could be done to
secure his release?
Or at least have the matter
come to trial?
As there's no basis for
the accusations.
-You know that for certain?
-Yes.
And I intend to use what
influence I have
to discover who falsely accused him.
Influence?
As an MP.
You say Colonel Despard
feared a conspiracy?
That's true.
His Majesty's government - and
indeed the Crown itself -
work in ways which we mere mortals
can scarce comprehend.
But, erm...
..let me see what can be done.
I'm obliged to you, Mr Merceron.
The girl would be an
excellent choice.
Girl?
Hanson's daughter.
Prime breeding stock.
Impressive fortune.
Elizabeth should be here.
What?
Her portrait...
..should not remain at Trenwith.
I omitted to have it brought -
I must remedy that.
Valentine would like to say
goodnight, sir.
I wanted Opie to paint her again -
with Ursula and Valentine.
George? Will you
not say goodnight to your son?
Elizabeth?
Sir?
Thank you, Bessie.
Goodnight, boy.
Goodnight, Papa.
-Goodnight, my love.
-Goodnight.
Get off me.
Is it usually this rowdy?
-No.
-What's changed?
London has changed.
You mark it, too?
When Kitty first spoke
of conspiracy,
I thought she was mistook.
There's a strange mood
abroad - an edge.
I sometimes wonder who
can be trusted.
God and the King?
They do say the King's an ass.
Ned would doubtless agree.
How did you find him?
Does he bear up well?
Remarkably so, considering...
Considering he has the temperament
of a powder keg?
When we first knew him he was...
Headstrong? Reckless?
..impatient to right the
wrongs of the world.
By whatever means.
I think you'll find he's
older and wiser now.
Shall you attend this?
Your presence would add much
to the proceedings.
Your own account, as told
from the heart.
A heart which is much afflicted.
The sure remedy for a sore
heart is a mission.
Always.
Sh, Garrick.
Perhaps I was mistook -
though Garrick did bark.
but 'twas more likely a dream.
Maybe not.
Two panes were broke last
night at Werry House.
And some at Mingoose Lodge.
I be thinking, maybe I should
heed Geoffrey Charles
and stay over some nights
at Trenwith?
And maybe I'll come stay with thee,
sister, till the ructions be abated.
No. I can take care of myself.
Besides, I have a remedy.
Tess.
I'm in need of a farm-hand.
What's the catch?
There's no catch.
Why would there be?
Tess.
You and I come of common stock,
and share a common hope, I think.
To see better times ahead.
Tomorrow, then.
That'd be most convenient.
Remind me to buy some ribbons,
so my father will think we have been
about suitably girlish pursuits!
Are we abolitionists now?
As it happens, yes.
But our presence today is in
support of Mrs Despard.
Will it take long?
Are we keeping
you from your drinking?
I drink to forget.
I'm still no nearer to funding
my studies.
Nor will you be, if you swill what
little you have down your throat.
I understand the speaker's
a former slave,
-from Honduras.
-Hideous place.
You know it?
I lived there till I was ten.
Then my mother caught a fever,
so we returned to London.
Frankly, I'd sooner die than
set foot there again.
The accounts of the Mosquito
Shore Mahogany Company.
As you will see, the yield
is considerable.
Ah, my dear, would you favour us
with your opinion?
Let me introduce you to Mr Hanson.
May I present...
Nephew, does Bessie need to be
involved with our discussions?
She must always be consulted.
It's a personal rule of mine.
I'm sure you'll understand.
Mr Hanson, would you permit us
to look over these accounts
for a few days?
There is much to consider.
Yes, of course.
By all means.
Pack for Trenwith.
Ask yourselves - what is it that
corrupts the milk of human kindness,
turns the just and tender-hearted
into vile, rapacious brutes?
It is the single-minded
pursuit of profit.
How long can this continue?
Do not our senses cry out for
liberty, equality, brotherhood?
-Most eloquent.
-And dangerous.
They'll be calling her
a Jacobin next.
Before my husband freed me,
first, he bought me.
Was I a piece of meat?
Chattel to be traded?
An object without sense or humanity?
My former master thought so,
used me viciously.
But my husband taught me that
if we truly seek a better world,
we should not wait for the
life hereafter,
we should build it.
here on Earth!
And how do we do that?
-How?
-Be quiet.
By preparing for the second
coming of our Lord!
-Oh, leave it out!
-Let him speak!
Do we not hope for a time
when all voices can be heard,
and none suppressed?
Well, my friends...
-A force to be reckoned with.
-..let us all ask ourselves...
How peaceful it is!
-Don't touch me.
-Forgive me.
Forgive me.
Will I light us a fire?
So, you're actually
acquainted with her?
Would you like me to introduce you?
Yes, she is quite the firebrand.
-Like her husband.
-Indeed.
Forgive me, Ross.
I must ask you again -
is it wise to embroil
yourself with Ned?
He's always been a law unto himself.
And has clearly acquired
powerful enemies.
When dealing with such enemies, one
must have something to bargain with.
-What have you?
-Nothing.
Except the debt I owe to the
man who saved my life.
Colley Cibber's play's
at Drury Lane.
The King has seen it four times.
-Has he?
-I propose we all go tonight.
By all means.
Is that...?
That's Valentine.
Valentine.
How came you here?
Are you not now lodged in Truro?
Hm?
-Shall I take you home to your father?
-No.
Master Valentine!
Which is worse?
Burying a child or leaving
one behind?
She did not deserve her fate.
Nor did her children.
I never meant to affright thee.
You think I did not know that?
Oh, Drake, you are the kindest,
most patient of men.
When we married...
..I thought...
..hoped...
..that I could be a proper
wife to you.
You are a proper wife.
Waking, yes.
Yet, abed...
..I cannot...
..I cannot bring myself...
I cannot.
And it is cruel to so deprive you.
I am not deprived.
I should like...
..one day...
..to be a wife to you in every way.
That day may come.
Or not.
It will make no difference
to my love.
You heard the news?
An assassination attempt on the
King today at Hyde Park.
Attempt? So, it failed?
-Was he caught?
-Apparently.
Do you know the identity of
the would-be assassin?
No, but a fellow standing close by
declared that had the shot
been two inches higher, it would
have been mortal.
Damn him! Twas not his destiny.
He had no right! Nay, nay.
But mine is the sacrifice.
Now, I must offer myself up
to be executed
for ridding the world of the Tyrant.
And what of the play?
Do we think it is comical
or tragical?
The anti-Christ who wears the crown.
Don't we all come to watch
the audience?
-You speak for yourself, I assume.
-Of course.
Miss Hanson.
He needs tonight to be a public
show of defiance.
You?
Get out of my house.
Get out of my house!
It's George. It's George.
Drake Carne was here, in this room!
I want him thrashed!
-I want him shot!
-And he will be, rest assured.
He was here, as close to me
as you are now!
Of course he was.
Thank you, my brother.
Now, it would take but
a second as he struts and...
-Shall we take our seats?
-I'll join you directly.
There's something I must attend to.
Any news?
Nothing yet..
Sir.
Excuse me.
Pardon me.
Excuse me, sir.
Prudie!
Prudie, There's a fire!
There's a fire! Get out, Prudie!
Wake up!
What's happening?
Here.
Hold these over your faces.
Ladies and Gentlemen, please rise
for His Majesty, The King!
# God save our gracious...
# Long live our noble King...
# Send him victorious...
# Happy and glorious... #
In the hand of God beholden!
The lamb who rids the world of sin.
You're safe now, my darlings.
I am the light...
I am the light.
Behold the lamb who takes away
the sins of the world.
Behold the Messiah...
-Kitty.
-Thank you.
God save the King!
In case you were wondering,
that wasn't the prologue.
What?
No encore?
How disappointing.
The man's aim was a disgrace.
And the King's performance
very undramatic.
My name is Wickham.
Perhaps you've heard of me.
Should I?
It's my business to be aware
of persons who may
be of interest to the Crown -
either by rendering it assistance,
or the reverse.
How did you come to know of the
assassination attempt?
Which?
I believe there were two today.
The latter.
By a fortunate coincidence,
I arrived at the theatre in time
to do His Majesty a service.
But to be frank, it's been
a tiresome disruption.
I hope I may now be permitted
to join my friends.
Is Catherine Despard your friend?
Her husband is.
On whose account she appealed
to me for assistance.
Regarding?
His imprisonment on false charges.
These are difficult times, Captain.
It's wise to be...selective.
Of...?
Those with whom one aligns oneself.
Ned Despard, for instance,
made some unwise connections during
his time in the West Indies.
And there was he thinking he was
improving the lot of the common man.
And you're quite sure you know
where your loyalties lie?
I'd suggest that was perfectly clear
from my actions this evening.
You have indeed rendered the Crown
invaluable service tonight.
And it may have further use of you.
What manner of use?
His Majesty's government
can always find a covert role
for a person of your...talents.
If...
..I were willing to consider
such a role,
what might the government be
willing to do in return?
Have a care, Captain.
It would be reckless to
overplay your hand
so early in our acquaintance.
Did I miss anything?
Could someone have left
a candle burning?
Don't you give me squinny-eye, maid!
It was deliberate, and no mistake!
But who'd do such a thing?
That, we'd all like to know.
Tess.
You pair could fettle this.
If you work for me, there
must be trust.
Each to the other. You understand?
I understand.
Did you do this?
I did not.
I take it you won't be
resigning your seat
if by retaining it, you can render
a different kind of service?
You understand what's
being asked of me?
I understand what covert means.
I also recall how you sprang me from
Quimper without a second thought.
That was different.
You were my friend. Is Wickham?
Still, the role may give you scope
to serve those causes
close to your heart.
You're free to go.
We should make arrangements for your
departure to London.
For what purpose?
Your investiture.
At St James's, by the King himself.
Ah, yes.
Of course.
I'll remind Elizabeth.
It must have slipped her mind.
Elizabeth's already there,
awaiting us.
Are you quite sane, uncle?
Elizabeth is here.
Oh, my love...
How the hell did you manage it?
I'm not entirely sure.
I'm glad to be of service.
But now...
What do you recommend?
A quiet life?
My head down and my mouth shut?
-Yes!
-Well...
-Oh, I could do.
And so could you. Behave ourselves.
Not attempt to clear my name.
Ignore the rank corruption which put
me here in the first place.
But...?
Where would be the fun in that?
Come on!
Ain't fair, ain't right.
Should be I in that carriage,
going to London.
Instead of which, it's left to me
to make the house fitty again.
Have I not said?
With all these goings-on,
fires and the like,
how could I rest easy
without you here?
Indeed, who'd be a common
ladies maid...?
When they could be Queen of Nampara?
Queen of Nampara?
Bye. Safe travel.
Here he is - the root of all evil!
The Devil Incarnate.
I'd take a strap to thee,
were our mistress here.
-Thee? Mistress, here?
-Stranger things have happened.
I have come to consider insanity
not as a moral failing,
but an affliction which may
happen to the best of us.
You won't tell on us?
In truth, I feel a little uneasy.
I care not what my father thinks.
I will uncover your accomplices!
Rest assured, you will
be made to pay!
This conspiracy has robbed me
of my name and position
and I want them restored!
Subtitles by explosiveskull
www.OpenSubtitles.org
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org